---
layout: post
title:  Using GnuPg (PGP) with GitHub
date:   2014-10-24 12:10:57
categories: notes security
---

I finally got tired of typing in my username and password when I pushed my changes to GitHub.

So I Google `git credentials` and after viewing several web sites including [Stack Overflow][stackoverflow] and a great write up on [Ian Atkinson][ianatkinson] blog, I ended up doing the following.

I Created a key but didn't trust it so when I went to use it, Ubuntu popped up a dialog to trust it when I was logged in.  I have included the command line trust options for reference:

    gpg --gen-key

List the key:

    gpg --list-keys
    gpg --list-secret-keys

Again on Ubuntu when you use the key you get prompted for trust authentication.

To trust the key:

{% highlight sh %}
    echo -n PASSPHRASE > phrase
    chmod 400 phrase #Make sure ONLY the user running the cron job can read the phrase
    yes | gpg --passphrase-fd 3 --recipient USER --encrypt FILENAME.txt 3<phrase
{% endhighlight %}

You need the `git-credentials-netrc` in your path with execute permissions.  It is installed with git at:

    /usr/share/doc/git/contrib/credential/netrc/git-credential-netrc

If you don't have it on your system you can get it as such:

    curl -o git-credential-netrc 
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/git/git/master/contrib/credential/netrc/git-credential-netrc

Make a text file named `.netrc` in a subdir of your home folder with the following contents and save:

    machine github.corp.com
    login github-username
    password github-password
    protocol https

Encrypt the file:

    gpg --list-keys

    gpg -e -r email-of-above-command .netrc


Make sure you end up with `.netrc.gpg` then delete the `.netrc` file.

To use the file with git, change to your project directory containing the .git folder then run:

    git config --local credential.helper "netrc -f /path/to/.netrc.gpg -v"

You should now be able to push to GitHub without getting promped for your usename and password.

This post is proof it worked!

{% highlight ruby %}
Automation = Lazy("Steve")
{% endhighlight %}

[stackoverflow]: http://stackoverflow.com/a/18362082/6309
[ianatkinson]: http://www.ianatkinson.net/computing/gnupg.htm
